#LyX 2.4 created this file. For more info see https://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 620
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble

\usepackage{fancyhdr}
\usepackage{lastpage}
\usepackage{ulem}
\usepackage{graphicx}
\usepackage{titlepic}
\usepackage{enumerate}
\usepackage{enumitem}
\usepackage{float}
\usepackage{caption}
\usepackage[colorlinks = true,
linkcolor = blue,
urlcolor = blue,
citecolor = blue,
anchorcolor = blue]{hyperref}
\usepackage[margin=2.5 cm,includehead,includefoot]{geometry} %Til at ændre marginen
\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}

\title{\\ }
\author{Oscar Ernst Alfthan Madsen & Kasper Weilby Knudsen}
\date{21. Feb 2025}
\chead{}
\lhead{Advanced Macroeconomics - Empirical Analysis
\\ Oscar Alfthan & Kasper Knudsen}
\rhead{Advanced Macroeconomics - Empirical Analysis\\ Spring Semester2025}
\lfoot{}
\cfoot{{Side \thepage \hspace{1pt} af \pageref{LastPage}}}
\rfoot{}
\pagestyle{fancy}
\renewcommand{\headrulewidth}{0.5pt}
\fancyhfoffset{\evensidemargin}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children no
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto-legacy
\fontencoding auto
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_roman_osf false
\font_sans_osf false
\font_typewriter_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement class
\float_alignment class
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_formatted_ref 0
\use_minted 0
\use_lineno 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tablestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\change_bars false
\postpone_fragile_content false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\docbook_table_output 0
\docbook_mathml_prefix 1
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Advanced Empirical Macroeconomic Analysis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Heterogenouns spillover effects from ECBs monetary decision
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Purpose
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this seminar,
 we investigate how different decisions of the European Central Bank influence key real variables for Eurozone countries.
 We wish to investigate how this one-sided monetary decision influences the member countries heterogeneously.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Short Description of the Project
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To address the inherent endogeneity of ECB decisions,
 we use High Frequency Identification (HFI) Data,
 following Altavilla et al.
 (2019),
 to construct exogenous shocks.
 In particular,
 we will examine Monetary Policy Shocks,
 Forward Guidance Shocks,
 and Quantitative Easing.
 As the ECB during the Zero-Lower Bound (ZLB) period,
 have used this nontraditional method to a greater extent.
 We then perform LP-IV as well as Panel LP-IV to investigate how the aforementioned shocks affect the Eurozone countries differently.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Structure of the Paper
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
1) Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
2) Literature Overview:

\bar under
 
\bar default
Examine the original Jordá paper,
 along with more recent methodology extensions,
 as well as the application of local projections in the context of monetary policy.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
3) Data and Methodology
\bar under
:

\bar default
 Description of the data used and the empirical methods applied.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
4) Empirical Analysis:
 Shock identification,
 Panel LP-IV,
 and robustness checks.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
5) Conclusion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
References
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Appendix
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Empirical Method
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Shock-Identification:
 Use the method by Altavilla et al.
 (2019),
 employing HFI to identify the exogenous shocks.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
LP-IV We use Local Projection Instrumental Variables to construct impulse response functions using OLS.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Panel-LP-IV:
 Also analyze how efficiency can be improved by using Panel LP-IV,
 meaning we estimate with Generalized Least Squares instead of OLS.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Data
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
The Euro Area Monetary Policy Event-Study Database:
 
\series default
Consists of trading data for different lengths of Overnight Interest Rate Swaps (OIS),
 which will be used for estimating the exogenous shocks.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Eurostat:

\series default
 Provides key variable series for the Eurozone countries,
 mainly GDP,
 unemployment,
 HICP,
 and more.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
